# JWave
## What is it and what it is not?!
Java implementation of a discrete fourier transform (DFT) algorithm, a fast
wavelet transform (FWT) algorithm, and a wavelet packet transform (WPT)
algorithm in 1-D, 2-D, and 3-D. The wavelet transform algorithms FWT & WPT are
using normalized orthogonal (orthonormal) Haar, Coiflet, Daubechies, and
Legendre wavelets as known by the multi-scale analysis. Additionally the
BiOrthogonal wavelet family, Symlets and the Discrete Mayer FIR filter are
available too. At the moment the implemented Battle23, CDF53, and CDF97 are not
available. Those wavelets have an odd number of coefficients and, therefore, do
not match to the FWT & WPT algorithms which are requesting an even number of
filter (scaling & wavelet) coefficients. However, those two wavelet transform
algorithms are an example for one kind of a wavelet filtering. There are other
ways (!) to filter or implement these algorithms; feel free. ;-) Furthermore,
there is a new method beside forward( .. ) and reverse( .. ) of the FWT & WPT
called decompose( ). This method allows for splitting a 1-D time signal into all
possible filter levels or so in each posible wavelet space. The result is 2-D,
starting with original signal; e.g. matrixResult[0][N]. Therefore, the method
decompose( .. ) replaces an often requested stepping method that stops a set
level; just take the coeffs from the requested level p of the 2-D result;
matrixResult[p][N]. The methods forward( .. ) ande reverse( .. ) are always
performing the maximal number of steps of a given signal of length N=2^p |
p:={0,1,2,3,..}. Each step or level p is add up to the coefficients form the
level p-1 before. So the result is 1-D, which is a (!) wanted - great -
advantage of these kind of wavelet algorithms; available due to the transforms
are orthogonal (orthonormal). The original time series can be reconstructed by
the reverse( .. ) method with no losses; see examples or JUnit tests! Anyway,
the implementation of JWave is based on several Design Patterns and hopefully
appears user-friendly. Have a look at the Wiki pages or into the JUnit tests for
usage.
